# Meeting 28/11/2022

## Minutes
- Went through slides and discussed progress in the last week.
- Discussed Pedalboard difficulties.
  - Should probably have some sort of EQ, can look online or use implemented StyleTransfer one.
  - Can use MDA for other effects.
- Discussed interim report draft:
  - Mostly good, just need to work on linking sections of lit review.
  - Diagram should probably be in the intro section.

## To-do for this week 
- First draft of interim report.
- SPSA toy example in PyTorch.
- Find EQ that works.
- Decide on data processing.
- Continue model implementation.